We just need lots of text up here
Sdjkf;ksfjs
Dsfkjsd;fjs;d


Position Title: Lead Student Programmer

Sdjfdslfk;jdsl
Sdjfsldkfjsld

Current Revision Year: 2018
Sdjflsdkfjf
Sdfjlkjsdlk

WLS Level: 5 		   Position Code: S61408

II.    Description Of Duties For This Position:
A. Student Programmers will be responsible for the creation of software systems aimed at improving the usability of technology at Berea College.
B. Student Programmers will be involved in all stages of the software engineering process, including design, development, implementation, testing, and revision.
C. Student Programmers will also be responsible for keeping open and clear communications with the customer, including gathering customer requirements, responding to their feedback on software iterations, and informing the customer of the status of their requests.
D. Lead Student Programmers will also be in a position of leadership, where they'll be guiding other students on various projects
E. Plan and lead weekly labor meetings with 6-10 students in attendance.
F. Mentoring 6-10 lower WLS labor students.
G. Effective collaboration with other student programmers following pair programming principles.
H. Effective use of version control systems for software engineering.
I. Communicate with supervisors about WLS level student's performance and concerns.

III.	Learning Opportunities For This Position:
A. Student programmers will be able to use computer science concepts to create new technological solutions and address new problems.
B. Student Labor Position Description Single WLS Level Form
C. Student programmers will be able to analyze large code sets and understand how to modify them to solve problems and troubleshoot issues.
D. Student programmers will be able to work effectively as a software engineering team.
E. Student programmers will be able to use their experiences as a Berea College students to think critically about how to impact the community in a positive way
F. Student programmers will be able to manage large projects.
G. Student programmers will be able to work effectively in ambiguous environments.
H. Student programmers will be able to communicate effectively with colleagues, customers, and supervisors.
I. Lead Student Programmers will be able to motivate and manage teams of students working on complex projects.

IV.  	Qualifications Needed For This Position:
A. Students at this level must have an advanced understanding of programming logic in more than one programming language.
B. Students must be able to work on large software systems, and be able to integrate third-party software libraries into local projects.
C. Students must be able to elicit requirements and needs from users, and translate those into technical specifications.
D. Students must be able to manage teams of students working in collaboration.
