






Department Name:  ARCT Comprehensive Wellness Program    Org. #:  72700
Position Title:  Group Personal Trainer
WLS Level:  4             Position Code:  S86304
Contract Hours:  As defined by the status form and/or the grade level
descriptions
Current Revision Year:  2019

                     WORK-LEARNING-SERVICE LEVELS (WLS)
    • WLS 1 – Entry Level – This level is assigned to the following:
     1. All entering students during the first year of enrollment (or first
        term if entering mid-year); and
     2. Students of any classification whose work is characterized by highly
        structured tasks or outcomes, relatively low level or number of
        skills required, typically repetitive or routine tasks, and
        requiring direct supervision of worker results
• WLS 2 – Intermediate Level –This work typically involves less direct
  supervision than WLS Level 1, perhaps more work variety, and requires
  some independent exercise of judgment along with an increasing knowledge
  of the job.
• WLS 3 – Skilled Level – The work is typically skilled, requires little
  direct supervision, requires independent judgment on procedures, has
  variety and depth.  The work includes helping in the training of others
  and the expectation of contributions toward improvement of the way work
  is carried out.
• WLS 4 – Advanced Level –Normally involves the supervision of other
  students, the ability to apply advanced skills, and the capacity to
  assume higher levels of responsibilities for departmental operations. As
  with WLS Level 3, the work is typically skilled, requires little direct
  supervision, allows for independent judgment on procedures, and has
  variety and depth.  The work includes helping in the training of others
  and the expectation of contributions toward improvement of the way work
  is carried out.  Labor Departments may require WLS level 4 positions to
  be more than the minimum 10 hour commitment; if so, the Status Form will
  reflect this requirement.
• WLS 5 – Management Level – Must be a 15 hour commitment  – Allocation of
  a WLS Level 5 is limited and must be approved by the Dean of Labor /
  Labor  Team.  Prerequisite:  One term at WLS level 3 or 4 and no forms of
  academic, labor, or social probation.
  This level demands an understanding of departmental policies and
  relationships.  Students are expected to develop and model strong
  interpersonal / communication skills in the workplace.  In addition,
  students must demonstrate autonomy, high level skills, and assume
  advanced level responsibilities for departmental functions and/or
  programs.  This level is assigned to the following: 
     1. Student managers in the department; or
     2. Students responsible for managing highly technical positions within
        the department; or
     3. Master level student artisans
• WLS 6 – Director Level – Must be a 15 hour commitment – Allocation of a
  WLS level 6 is limited and must be approved by the Labor Program Council.
   Prerequisite:  One term at level 4 or 5 and no forms of academic, labor,
  or social probation.. 
  Students assigned to this level serve as role models as workers and as
  students, displaying behaviors and values that are consistent with the
  Berea College Workplace Expectations -- both on and off the job.  These
  positions require the highest levels of worker autonomy, advanced skills
  sets, and supervisory responsibilities for individuals, student managers,
  and departmental operations.  Students must be involved in the following:
     1. Supervision of other student managers; or
     2. Supervision of students in highly technical positions
• WLS UC -- Unclassified – The positions of Student Government Association
  President, Campus Activities Board chair, chimes Editor, and pinnacle
  Editor are unclassified.  These positions involve the highest levels of
  autonomy and responsibility as in the case of WLS level 6 positions.


I.     WLS Level: 4

II.    Description Of Duties For This Position:
       A. Design fun, safe exercise programming for group setting
       B. Be present with clients during workouts
       C. Provide technical assistance to clients performing workouts
          including proper biomechanics and proper use of exercise equipment
       D. Answer theory-related questions of clients as they arise
       E. Provide support and encouragement to clients as needed
       F. Ensure a safe and risk-free workout environment for clients
       G. Ensure that exercise equipment is in good working order
       H. Respond to emergency situations in accordance with accepted
          practices
       I. Perform other job-related duties as assisgned


III.  Learning Opportunities For This Position:
   A. Develop the attributes appropriate to Grade 4 positions: an
      understanding of relations between individuals, institutions and
      processes; commprehension of job related values, realtities and goals;
      a commitment to service and the ability to articulate and interpret
      observations, experiences and understanding
   B. Improve leadership skills
   C. Learn how to work with clients in a group exercise environment
   D. Learn how to apply exercise physiology principles in a practical
      settings


IV.   Qualifications Needed For This Position:
   A. Current recognized Personal Trainer Certification: ACE, ACSM, NASCM,
      Cooper

   B. Initiative

   C. Must give attention to detail, be prompt and reliable

   D. Exhibit strong communication and time management skills

   E. Ability to work independantly

   F. Must demonstrate maturity and responsibiilty as a direct
      representation of the Health and Wellness program.
-----------------------
                         Student Labor Position Description

                                                   Single WLS Level Form





