






Department Name: Computer Science       Org. #: 2114
Position Title: Lead Student Programmer
WLS Level: 5              Position Code: S61408
Contract Hours:  As defined by the status form and/or the grade level
descriptions
Current Revision Year:  2018

                     WORK-LEARNING-SERVICE LEVELS (WLS)
    • WLS 1 – Entry Level – This level is assigned to the following:
     1. All entering students during the first year of enrollment (or first
        term if entering mid-year); and
     2. Students of any classification whose work is characterized by highly
        structured tasks or outcomes, relatively low level or number of
        skills required, typically repetitive or routine tasks, and
        requiring direct supervision of worker results
• WLS 2 – Intermediate Level –This work typically involves less direct
  supervision than WLS Level 1, perhaps more work variety, and requires
  some independent exercise of judgment along with an increasing knowledge
  of the job.
• WLS 3 – Skilled Level – The work is typically skilled, requires little
  direct supervision, requires independent judgment on procedures, has
  variety and depth.  The work includes helping in the training of others
  and the expectation of contributions toward improvement of the way work
  is carried out.
• WLS 4 – Advanced Level –Normally involves the supervision of other
  students, the ability to apply advanced skills, and the capacity to
  assume higher levels of responsibilities for departmental operations. As
  with WLS Level 3, the work is typically skilled, requires little direct
  supervision, allows for independent judgment on procedures, and has
  variety and depth.  The work includes helping in the training of others
  and the expectation of contributions toward improvement of the way work
  is carried out.  Labor Departments may require WLS level 4 positions to
  be more than the minimum 10 hour commitment; if so, the Status Form will
  reflect this requirement.
• WLS 5 – Management Level – Must be a 15 hour commitment  – Allocation of
  a WLS Level 5 is limited and must be approved by the Dean of Labor /
  Labor  Team.  Prerequisite:  One term at WLS level 3 or 4 and no forms of
  academic, labor, or social probation.
  This level demands an understanding of departmental policies and
  relationships.  Students are expected to develop and model strong
  interpersonal / communication skills in the workplace.  In addition,
  students must demonstrate autonomy, high level skills, and assume
  advanced level responsibilities for departmental functions and/or
  programs.  This level is assigned to the following: 
     1. Student managers in the department; or
     2. Students responsible for managing highly technical positions within
        the department; or
     3. Master level student artisans
• WLS 6 – Director Level – Must be a 15 hour commitment – Allocation of a
  WLS level 6 is limited and must be approved by the Labor Program Council.
   Prerequisite:  One term at level 4 or 5 and no forms of academic, labor,
  or social probation.. 
  Students assigned to this level serve as role models as workers and as
  students, displaying behaviors and values that are consistent with the
  Berea College Workplace Expectations -- both on and off the job.  These
  positions require the highest levels of worker autonomy, advanced skills
  sets, and supervisory responsibilities for individuals, student managers,
  and departmental operations.  Students must be involved in the following:
     1. Supervision of other student managers; or
     2. Supervision of students in highly technical positions
• WLS UC -- Unclassified – The positions of Student Government Association
  President, Campus Activities Board chair, chimes Editor, and pinnacle
  Editor are unclassified.  These positions involve the highest levels of
  autonomy and responsibility as in the case of WLS level 6 positions.


I.     WLS Level: 5

II.    Description Of Duties For This Position:
   A. Student Programmers will be responsible for the creation of software
      systems aimed at improving the usability of technology at Berea
      College.
   B. Student Programmers will be involved in all stages of the software
      engineering process, including design, development, implementation,
      testing, and revision.
   C. Student Programmers will also be responsible for keeping open and
      clear communications with the customer, including gathering customer
      requirements, responding to their feedback on software iterations, and
      informing the customer of the status of their requests.
   D. Lead Student Programmers will also be in a position of leadership,
      where they'll be guiding other students on various projects
   E. Plan and lead weekly labor meetings with 6-10 students in attendance.
   F. Mentoring 6-10 lower WLS labor students.
   G. Effective collaboration with other student programmers following pair
      programming principles.
   H. Effective use of version control systems for software engineering.
   I. Communicate with supervisors about WLS level student’s performance and
      concerns.

III.  Learning Opportunities For This Position:
   A. Student programmers will be able to use computer science concepts to
      create new technological solutions and address new problems.
   B. Student Labor Position Description Single WLS Level Form
   C. Student programmers will be able to analyze large code sets and
      understand how to modify them to solve problems and troubleshoot
      issues.
   D. Student programmers will be able to work effectively as a software
      engineering team.
   E. Student programmers will be able to use their experiences as a Berea
      College students to think critically about how to impact the community
      in a positive way
   F. Student programmers will be able to manage large projects.
   G. Student programmers will be able to work effectively in ambiguous
      environments.
   H. Student programmers will be able to communicate effectively with
      colleagues, customers, and supervisors.
   I. Lead Student Programmers will be able to motivate and manage teams of
      students working on complex projects.

IV.   Qualifications Needed For This Position:
   A. Students at this level must have an advanced understanding of
      programming logic in more than one programming language.
   B. Students must be able to work on large software systems, and be able
      to integrate third-party software libraries into local projects.
   C. Students must be able to elicit requirements and needs from users, and
      translate those into technical specifications.
   D. Students must be able to manage teams of students working in
      collaboration.
-----------------------
                         Student Labor Position Description

                                                   Single WLS Level Form





